README.md, before:

# BattleMode

[Battle Mode](https://s-20.github.io/BattleMode/) is a TTRPG/Tabletop Combat System with RPG elements inspired by Dead Cells and other Roguelites. It also owes a debt to both the carefully constructed tactical combat rules of the fourth edition of The World's Most Popular Role Playing Game and the Narrative Focus of more modern role playing game design.

[BattleMode](https://s-20.github.io/BattleMode/) is intended as a mechanical framework to hang other things on. It provides no setting details or other specifics, and should customized as needed for each individual campaign.

## Purpose

Honestly? I have had issues recently with ideas that don't fit in with my [unnamed TTRPG project](https://s-20.github.io/unnamed/#/) but _do_ more or less fit together plaguing me wile I'm writing. So I decided to give those ideas a home to get them out of my head. Eventually, they started to coalesce into something resembling a full system in my mind and notes. That system is [BattleMode](https://s-20.github.io/BattleMode/).

In a less behind-the-curtain way, though, the purpose of [BattleMode](https://s-20.github.io/BattleMode/) is to provide a system that divorces combat crunch from the more narrative part of a game, allowing you to have the narrative-driven goodness for most of the game, backed up by a solid combat system that is (in my opinion) lacking in narrative driven games.

Because the combat system (the eponymous Battle Mode) and the Narrative System are separate things connected loosely together by a few hooks, if I do this right, you should be able to slide the Battle Mode part into your favorite other system. That's the idea, anyway.

## unnamed

My main TTRPG project goes under the working title of [unnamed](https://s-20.github.io/unnamed/#/). If you'd like to follow it's development, the GitHub page is [here](https://github.com/s-20/unnamed), and the Wiki itself is [right here](https://s-20.github.io/unnamed/#/).

unnamed shares some traits with [BattleMode](https://s-20.github.io/BattleMode/), but is a very different animal.

## License

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)<br>
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Commit message:

Overhaul, restart, name change
I basically restarted this project from scratch. I changed the name to Modes (including the repo itself), came up with a completely different dice mechanic, I also introduced a file naming convention to keep things more organized and easier to order (I hope). Having fun!

README.md, after:

# Modes

**[Modes](https://s-20.github.io/Modes/)** is a TTRPG System inspired by problems I have with the union of combat and narrative systems in modern (and old school) game systems. It owes a debt to both the tactical combat rules of the fourth edition of The World's Most Popular Role Playing Game and the Narrative Focus of more modern role playing game design.

**Modes** is a general purpose system intended for games where you want interesting, permissive narrative game-play without sacrificing the fun crunch of tactical combat scenarios. The intention is for it to be hackable into any story where both of these is a priority, from low fantasy to four-color superheroics.

## Purpose

The purpose of **Modes** is to provide a system that divorces combat crunch from the more narrative part of a game, allowing you to have the narrative-driven goodness that can be missing from more tactically oriented games, while also having the fun crunchy tactical combat missing from games with a more narrative bent.

Because the systems are distinct (without being all that different from each other), you should be able to replace the way any given game handles *either* narrative play *or* combat with the different *modes*. So if you want the narrative paradigm of, say, [Gumshoe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gumshoe_System), but feel it's combat is lacking, just use [Battle Mode](Mode.Battle.md) when you get into a fight.

Another idea for the **Modes** system is expandability. Different *Modes* can be made and slotted in to handle additional custom systems of play. For example, if you want to add in some sort of base management system to the game, you create a new Mode for that. If you want some sort of court intrigue mechanic that's separate from the way general narrative is handled, make a mode and add that.

## Getting Started

**Modes** is in active development and is in a "pre-alpha" state. If you're interested in seeing what's going on or using what little is here, start with [Modes](Modes.md).

If you have feedback or want to contribute, feel free to follow the project on GitHub (or wherever I decide to host it), make pull requests, report "bugs", or whatever. The project home page is [Here](https://github.com/s-20/Modes).

## License

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)<br>
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
